#summary List of hardware known to work with ESOS.

=== System Requirements ===
ESOS will run on any x86-64 platform; a 64-bit capable CPU is required (eg, AMD64 / Intel 64). SCST, the core of ESOS, is fully multi-threaded with complete SMP support, meaning the more sockets/cores you have, and the faster your CPUs, the more IO that can be processed.

Enterprise-grade server hardware is definitely recommended for your ESOS disk array. Obviously redundant power supplies, multiple HBAs/HCAs/NICs, fault-tolerant RAID back-storage, memory sparring/mirroring, etc. should all be must-haves for production deployments.

In addition to the above, the following are required to run ESOS:
  * At least 4 GB of usable, physical RAM.
  * A USB flash drive that is at least 4 GB.

_If you have any hardware that you would like supported that is not listed below, please submit a request to the [http://groups.google.com/group/esos-users esos-users] Google Group._

<br>

=== Local RAID Controllers ===
While there is support for a number of different RAID controllers, not all brands include the CLI tools that allow creating/destroying/etc. volumes from inside ESOS. If your favorite RAID controller has a CLI tool, please let us know so we can consider including it with ESOS.
  * LSI Logic MegaRAID cards (CLI tool: MegaCli64 / storcli64)
    * Including re-branded MegaRAID compatible adapters: Dell PERC; IBM ServeRAID; Sun/Oracle, Cisco, and Intel RAID controllers
  * Adaptec AACRAID cards (CLI tool: arcconf)
    * Including re-branded AACRAID compatible adapters: IBM ServeRAID; Sun/Oracle RAID controllers 
  * HP Smart Array cards (CLI tool: hpacucli)
  * Areca SATA/SAS RAID cards (CLI tool: cli64)
  * 3ware 9000-series SATA and 9700-series SATA/SAS RAID cards (CLI tool: tw_cli.x86_64)

<br>

=== Fibre Channel HBAs / FCoE CNAs ===
QLogic FC HBAs and FCoE CNAs are fully supported in ESOS. Emulex FC/FCoE products based on SLI-4 are supported via the OneCore Storage SDK from Emulex (manual build required). Chelsio T5 10/40 GbE FCoE adapters are supported via the Unified Wire driver (manual build required).
  * QLogic QLA2XXX FC Host Bus Adapters (QLE2460, QLE2560, QLA2340, etc.)
  * QLogic QLE8XXX FCoE Converged Network Adapters (QLE8360, QLE8362, etc.)
  * Emulex XE201 IOC combo adapters (LPe15004, LPe16000B, LPe16202, and LPe16004)
  * Emulex XE100-series 10/40 GbE CNAs (OCe14102-UX, OCe14102-UM, OCe14101-NX, OCe14102-NX, and OCe14401-NX)
  * Chelsio T5 UWire CNAs (T520, T580, T540, and T522)

<br>

=== InfiniBand HCAs ===
Mellanox and QLogic InfiniBand Host Channel Adapters work with ESOS.
  * Mellanox InfiniHost Host Channel Adapters (MT23108, MT25208, etc.)
  * Mellanox ConnectX PCI Express HCAs (MNPH29D-XTR, MHGH28-XTC, etc.)
  * QLogic HTX Host Channel Adapter (QHT7140)
  * QLogic PCIe QLE InfiniBand HCAs (QLE7340, QLE7280, etc.)

<br>

=== Network Interface Cards / CNAs ===
Although Linux provides drivers for a ton of different NICs, we tried to keep it simple and only support NICs that are common in enterprise IT environments. The list below includes popular 10 GbE and 1 GbE cards, and even a couple lower-end cards that might be useful for console/configuration access (SSH).
  * Intel PRO/1000 Gigabit Ethernet adapters
  * Intel PRO/1000 PCI-Express Gigabit Ethernet adapters
  * Intel 82575/82576 PCI-Express Gigabit Ethernet adapters
  * Broadcom Tigon3 adapters
  * Broadcom NetXtremeII adapters (with CNIC support)
  * QLogic QLA3XXX adapters
  * Chelsio T1/T3/T4 1 GbE and 10 GbE adapters (with T3/T4 initiator iSCSI offload support)
  * Cisco VIC Ethernet NIC adapter
  * Intel 10GbE PCI Express adapters
  * Intel PRO/10GbE adapters
  * Mellanox Technologies ConnectX 10Gbit Ethernet adapters
  * Broadcom NetXtremeII 10Gb cards (with iSCSI/FCoE initiator offload support)
  * QLogic QLCNIC 1/10Gb CNAs (QLE8240, QLE8242)
  * QLogic QLGE ISP8XXX 10Gb Ethernet adapters
  * Brocade 1010/1020 10Gb Ethernet cards
  * Intel(R) PRO/100+ Ethernet cards
  * RealTek RTL-8139 C+ PCI Fast Ethernet adapters
  * RealTek RTL-8129/8130/8139 PCI Fast Ethernet adapters
  * Realtek 8169 Gigabit Ethernet cards
  * Marvell Yukon Gigabit Ethernet cards
  * Marvell Yukon 2  Ethernet adapters