#summary How to build ESOS from source.

=== Read This First ===
Building ESOS from source is no longer the only option for installing/using ESOS; you may now download trunk snapshot packages that contain a pre-built disk image and everything you need to create a ESOS USB flash drive. If you'd still like to build ESOS from source, just for fun, or for developing ESOS, please continue...

<br>

=== Build Prerequisites ===
Here is a list of the build host system requirements:
  * A recent release, of a modern x86-64 Linux distribution (64-bit Linux is required since ESOS uses only 64-bit kernel/programs).
  * All of the typical software development packages (eg, GCC, GNU Make, Autoconf, Libtool, etc.) are required.
  * A USB flash drive that is at least 4 GB -- not really required for building, but needed to install the ESOS "distribution" on (see [12_Installation] after completing the build).
  * Subversion is required to pull the source down to your machine.
  * The configure script will check for all of the required tools/utilities that are used directly by the ESOS Makefile.
  * Other tools, libraries, etc. that are required by the packages/projects that ESOS uses should be caught by those project's configure scripts.
  * Some free disk space for building, probably around 10 GB to be safe.
  * A lot of time! Unfortunately, several larger projects (GCC, Linux kernel, glibc, etc.) are required that take quite a while to compile.
  * Internet connectivity; packages are fetched from the dist. file repository.

Using _Red Hat Enterprise Linux (or CentOS) 6.2 Server x86_64_ as your build host:
  * Standard/basic install, defaults for everything.
  * yum groupinstall "Development tools"
  * yum install lsscsi kpartx libxslt bc wget gettext

Using _Fedora 16 Desktop Edition x86_64_ as your build host:
  * Standard/basic install, defaults for everything.
  * yum groupinstall "Development tools"
  * yum install wget lsscsi kpartx libxslt gettext-devel

Using _Ubuntu 12.04.2 LTS x86_64_ as your build host:
  * Standard/basic install, defaults for everything.
  * apt-get install build-essential
  * apt-get install subversion autoconf gawk flex bison gcc-multilib unzip libtinfo-dev libtool lsscsi kpartx libxslt1-dev groff gettext xsltproc pkg-config autopoint

Using _SUSE Linux Enterprise Desktop 11.4 x86_64_ as your build host:
  * Standard/basic install, defaults for everything.
  * zypper install -t pattern "devel_C_C++"
  * zypper install -t pattern "linux_kernel_devel"
  * zypper install subversion kpartx libxslt

Using _SUSE Linux Enterprise Server 12 x86_64_ as your build host:
  * Standard/basic install, defaults for everything.
  * zypper install -t pattern "SDK-C-C++"
  * zypper install subversion kpartx libxslt1 groff-full

<br>

=== Building ESOS ===
Grab the latest revision from trunk:
{{{
svn checkout http://enterprise-storage-os.googlecode.com/svn/trunk esos
cd esos
}}}

Generate the configure script:
{{{
autoconf
}}}

After you have generated the configure script above, you then need to run the configure script (there aren't currently any options that affect anything build related):
{{{
./configure
}}}

Finally, run make, which will fetch, extract, and build everything:
{{{
make
}}}

After everything has been built, you will then need to create the disk image file (requires root privileges):
{{{
sudo make image
}}}

You may now optionally create a package distribution (tarball) file if you desire:
{{{
make pkg_dist
}}}

These are the same steps that the Buildbot host/software uses to create the SVN trunk snapshot packages that are available on the downloads page.

<br>

=== Next Steps ===
Once you have successfully built your ESOS image/package, you can now move on to the [12_Installation] wiki page which will describe the install process. If you have any problems/questions building ESOS, please post to the esos-users Google Group.