#summary Creating host groups and adding initiators.

=== Host/Security Group Concept ===
The terms "security group", "host group", and "initiator group" are synonymous -- they are used interchangeably, likely throughout all of the ESOS documentation. Most enterprise-grade disk arrays have a similar concept. They provide initiator-orientated access control (eg, LUN masking). Each group is unique to a SCST target.

These groups can also be used to control I/O grouping in SCST. See the SCST documentation for more information. These "advanced" I/O group type settings can be configured via the CLI.

The idea is simple: For each target, you create a host group and then add your initiators and LUNs (mapped devices). The initiators and devices can then "see each other" (devices->LUNs).

Here is a typical example used in a VMware vSphere environment: (1) ESOS storage server with (2) Fibre Channel HBAs, each FC HBA is connected to an independent Fibre Channel switch (fabric); (3) ESXi hosts with (2) FC HBAs (initiators) each, one to each FC switch; you could then create (2) SCST host/security groups in ESOS, one for each target; then for each host group, you would be adding (3) initiators (the initiators connected to that target's fabric); finally you would map each SCST device to both groups.

<br>

=== Adding/Removing Groups ===
To add a new host/security group in the TUI choose the Add Group dialog (Hosts -> Add Group). You'll be prompted to select the target, and then choose a name for the new group.

To remove a host/security group in the TUI choose the Remove Group dialog (Hosts -> Remove Group). Select the target when prompted, and then choose the group from the selection list that you'd like to remove.

<br>

=== Adding/Removing Initiators ===
After you have created a new host group, you'll want to add one or more initiators to the group. Select the Add Initiator dialog in the TUI (Hosts -> Add Initiator). When prompted, choose the target that is associated with the group you'd like to add the initiator to. Next, select the desired host group.

The initiator name should be the unique identifier for the remote initiator.
  * For Fibre Channel initiators, this is the WWN (port name); it should be 8 bytes, with each byte separated by a ':' and lower-case alphabetic characters (eg, "10:00:00:00:c9:99:03:c3").
  * For iSCSI initiators, use the iSCSI Qualified Name (IQN) for the remote initiator (eg, "iqn.1991-05.com.microsoft:cm-1204-o-11.mccad.mcc.edu").
  * For InfiniBand initiators, use the remote port GUID as the initiator name value (eg, "0x0002c9020022f9fd0002c802003210cb").
  * The initiator name may also contain simple DOS-type patterns: '`*`', '`?`', '`!`'
  * The '`*`' means match all characters/symbols; the '`?`' means match a single character/symbol; the '`!`' can be used to revert the value of a pattern.

Use the Remove Initiator dialog (Hosts -> Remove Initiator) in the ESOS TUI to remove an initiator from a security group. _Be sure I/O is stopped for the remote initiator._

<br>

=== Next Steps ===
Now that you have created your SCST security group(s) and added the initiator(s), you can move on to creating your SCST device and mapping the device as a LUN to one of these host groups. Go to the [51_Device_Configuration] page.