#summary List of hardware known to work with ESOS.

==== System Requirements ====
ESOS will run on any x86-64 platform; a 64-bit capable CPU is required (eg, AMD64 / Intel 64). SCST, the core of ESOS, is fully multi-threaded with complete SMP support, meaning the more sockets/cores you have, and the faster your CPUs, the more IO that can be processed.

Enterprise-grade server hardware is definitely recommended for your ESOS disk array. Obviously redundant power supplies, multiple HBAs/HCAs/NICs, fault-tolerant RAID back-storage, memory sparring/mirroring, etc. should all be must-haves for production deployments.

In addition to the above, the following are required to run ESOS:
  * At least 4 GB of usable, physical RAM.
  * A USB flash drive that is at least 4 GB.

_If you have any hardware that you would like supported that is not listed below, please submit a request to the [http://groups.google.com/group/esos-users esos-users] Google Group._

<br>

==== Local RAID Controllers ====
Add your content here.  Format your content with:
  * Text in *bold* or _italic_
  * Headings, paragraphs, and lists
  * Automatic links to other wiki pages

<br>

==== Fibre Channel HBAs ====
Currently only QLogic FC HBAs are supported. SCST does support Emulex HBAs, however, the SCST-to-LPFC shim driver does not support newer kernels (eg, the version ESOS uses). We anticipate that we will be able to support Emulex FC HBAs in the near future.
  * QLogic QLA2XXX FC Host Bus Adapters (QLE2460, QLE2560, QLA2340, etc.)

<br>

==== InfiniBand HCAs ====
Mellanox and QLogic InfiniBand Host Channel Adapters work with ESOS.
  * Mellanox InfiniHost Host Channel Adapters (MT23108, MT25208, etc.)
  * Mellanox ConnectX PCI Express HCAs (MNPH29D-XTR, MHGH28-XTC, etc.)
  * QLogic HTX Host Channel Adapter (QHT7140)
  * QLogic PCIe QLE InfiniBand HCAs (QLE7340, QLE7280, etc.)

<br>

==== Network Interface Cards / CNAs ====
Although Linux provides drivers for a ton of different NICs, we tried to keep it simple and only support NICs that are common in enterprise IT environments. The list below includes 10 GbE and 1 GbE cards -- no one actually uses 10/100 NICs in their data center anymore, right?
  * Intel PRO/1000 Gigabit Ethernet adapters
  * Intel PRO/1000 PCI-Express Gigabit Ethernet adapters
  * Intel 82575/82576 PCI-Express Gigabit Ethernet adapters
  * Broadcom Tigon3 adapters
  * Broadcom NetXtremeII adapters (with CNIC support)
  * QLogic QLA3XXX adapters
  * Chelsio 1 GbE and 10 GbE adapters (T1, T3, T4)
  * Cisco VIC Ethernet NIC adapter
  * Intel 10GbE PCI Express adapters
  * Intel PRO/10GbE adapters
  * Mellanox Technologies ConnectX 10Gbit Ethernet adapters
  * Broadcom NetXtremeII 10Gb cards
  * QLOGIC QLCNIC 1/10Gb CNAs (QLE8240, QLE8242)
  * QLogic QLGE ISP8XXX 10Gb Ethernet adapters
  * Brocade 1010/1020 10Gb Ethernet cards