#summary Troubleshooting tips and where to get technical support.

==== Debugging / Log Files ====
All of the ESOS system log files are written to the "/var/log" directory on a running system. When ESOS reboots or shuts down, the log files are archived to the "esos_logs" filesystem; the log files are also archived automatically if they grow too large on a running ESOS storage server.

The easiest way to access the archived ESOS log files is to simply mount the "esos_logs" filesystem:
{{{
mount /mnt/logs
}}}
You can then `scp` the tarballs to another machine to examine, or you can take a peek on the ESOS server itself. _Don't forget, any non-standard (eg, copying files to /root) changes made to a running ESOS will be lost on power off or reboot._

Another important feature of ESOS is that there are two different kernels. You'll notice two options when booting ESOS (GRUB):
  * ESOS - Enterprise Storage OS $VERSION <*Production*>
  * ESOS - Enterprise Storage OS $VERISON <*Debug*>

The "Production" kernel/mode is what you will typically run in -- its using a kernel with minimal debugging options set and SCST setup for performance.

The "Debug" kernel/mode should be used when you are having problems or issues that you are unable to resolve/diagnose using the normal "Production" kernel. The "Debug" ESOS kernel has a few extra kernel debugging options set and the SCST modules are set for full debugging.

The advantage is you can easily reboot and switch to debugging mode if you are having problems without re-configuring anything. All of the target/device/storage/system/etc. configuration is exactly the same as the production mode.

<br>

==== Kernel Panics ====

Add your content here.  Format your content with:
  * Text in *bold* or _italic_
  * Headings, paragraphs, and lists
  * Automatic links to other wiki pages

<br>

==== Getting Help ====
blah